		

Text


The initial intention was to understand the mechanism behind the industrially produced aluminium clip through the practice of reproducing it, based on a broad and heterogenous survey of exis- ting metal clips.
The goal is to make a lot with a mini- mum amount of ressources using dis- carded aluminium,
I created a standardised production method for making paper-clips using dimensions drawn from ISO paper.
Requiring only tree components: a spring, a zip tie and two aluminium plates,
the clips are made to be used in quantity The clips show that building things at one scale is building them at all scales.

"Kyocera" is about setting up a production practice around printed matter and transparently documenting it. It started from a fascination for printing as a medium and for "obsolete" office printers as machines to find, repair, and use.
The intentionality behind choice of tool extended to material sourcing. Paper was bought cheaply from thrift stores and flea markets or acquired through contributions of old stock from businesses and schools.
Access to printers in institutional settings is often indirect: fees, restrictions around material type and format, and access control are impediments to experimentation. "Kyocera" is an attempt to make a seemingly hard to access tool more accessible. The aim is to create proximity with and through the practice of printing and producing books.
Each book visually covers one aspect of its own production process: glue application technique; use of clamps and weights for page assembly; origin of paper; and choice of format.
The same principle of communication is used throughout the project — the recursive Droste effect, in which an image contains increasingly mediated images of itself.
Examples of this include a book where each page contains representations of all other pages and a book where each photo serves as backdrop for the next. Each generates a stream of embedded images exploring the effects of recursion.
Animations, where each 1/5 second frame corresponds to one page, act as an accelerated translation of the physical books, further revealing the steps between pages in each book's recursive processes.

Anonymous Artefacts explores means of documentation through printed matter and analogue photography. This project was conducted at l’Ouvroir, a nearly century-old entreprise de travail adapté in Brussels which employs people with disabilities to work on mostly fabrication- based tasks.
Craftspeople in l’Ouvroir’s bookbinding workshop taught me the tech- niques used in the printed matter component of this project. Colienne showed me the basics and essential gestures of bookbinding, and Marcel explained the semantic functions of different paper types in an archive as well as techniques for proper application of glue, critical to the quality of a finished book.
The photography component was handled using a professional medium format Mamiya that was found by chance in the street. This project
is my first attempt at both using this type of camera and at developing film.
Shown here are books I designed, printed, and bound. Each book was produced at multiple ISO paper sizes to study how a collection of informa- tion is perceived differently based on its format and the consequently different organizational decisions.
They are divided into two series. The first (yellow spines) summarizes the initial phase of the project: research around artefacts found around the construction industry. This documentary research continues into the production of the books themselves.
The second series (red spines) shows, through photographs, a docu- mentation of the people, equipment, and spaces around me at l’Ouvroir, synthesized into an impression of the place. This is valuable not only for outsiders, but for the staff, for whom photography meant an expression of interest in their work.
As a documentarian searches for the most representative shots of the place they are in, the designer is a selector and a maker of visibility; analyzing the potentiality of their setting and investigating ways to create proximity. If I can increase the visibility of a place, without deforming
or transforming its nature, or if I can contribute to any form of valorisation (of someone’s craftsmanship for instance), then my role as a designer
is complete.

Erratic is a typography project deve- lopp from Baskerville’s most signifi- cant elements.
The meticulously selection of ele- ments, formed a new alphabet, sup- port for a variety of application.

Analogue first
draft, pencil Digital version
3 of the alphabets, chosen parts.
The base for ongoing experi- ments (3-4-5). Letters in motion, you can watch it here


Unwitting encouters is ongoing do- cumentary practice. It consists in conducting filmed interviews with strangers encoutered threw walking in Parisians streets.
The serie of footages result in a col- lection of lively interactions, and unex- pected dialogues.

The broom is attempt to understand how is made a commonly use product by experiencing every steps of it’s production.
The point wasn’t to better the broom’s functionality,, or write a tutorial about how to build one. It was about highligh- ting the «unseen angles» of a finished product, permitting a shift of attention, reduicing our distance from object.